Title: Ontology of Hamburgers
Date: 2019-07-19
Slug: hamburgers

I know of no food that is more essentially American than the hamburger. Determining who invented the hamburger is like trying to find the one cow that provided the ground beef for your hamburger patty. A herd of enterprising immigrants to America all claim to have made the very first hamburger in the late 1800s. And the rest is history. The hamburger has a simple basic form, which leaves plenty of room for customization to make it unique, gourmet, or just plain weird. It's a lowbrow food that transcends class boundaries and has taken over the world. Hamburgers are also quite unhealthy. Like its birthplace of America, the hamburger can be problematic, but in its best manifestations it is egalitarian and free.
  
I don't really cook hamburgers because I find them to be too smoky to make in my small apartment, but I do eat a fair number of burgers that other people have made. I have a beef with many hamburgers, which is that the patty is too thick. This may be an unpopular opinion, but I think beef by itself doesn't really have an interesting taste and is sort of bland (I have never really liked steaks for this same reason). I appreciate the beef patty in a hamburger when it moderates but also gives heft to the other, stronger flavors in a hamburger, and I also appreciate the smoky crust formed by the so-called Maillard reaction. My cooking hero J. Kenji López-Alt has an informative [blog post on the benefits of the burger-smashing technique in developing this crust on the patty.](https://aht.seriouseats.com/2012/09/the-burger-lab-smashed-burgers-vs-smashing-burgers.html)
  
I recently had a Five Guys burger for the first time. I requested a single patty burger but received a double patty all the same. In my opinion, this was a very unbalanced burger that contained far too much beef. To make matters worse, apparently [Five Guys does not add salt to their meat as a matter of policy.](https://www.mashed.com/60752/make-perfect-five-guys-burger/) As a result, the burger had an aggressively bland and dry flavor, which made me sad ([and I am joined by some prominent voices in disliking Five Guys!](https://twitter.com/kenjilopezalt/status/1145049158245470209))
  
Interestingly, one of the best places in the world to get a hamburger is Paris—the capital of anti-American snobbery. The city is full of small, casual burger joints serving quality burgers. Unfortunately, many of them close after lunch and don't reopen until around 7 p.m. When I found myself in Paris wanting a burger in the afternoon, I could only find one nearby place that was open out of perhaps a half-dozen. I remember the burger I had there was quite tasty, but today I searched for the place on Google Maps and I couldn't find it. Perhaps it went bankrupt due to being open in the afternoon. If you are ever in Paris, be sure to eat at a Parisian hamburger joint.

Closer to home, I think that Shake Shack and Smashburger are solid places to grab a burger. There are undoubtedly other, more gourmet places that serve burgers, but burgers lose some of their appeal for me when they become serious sit-down affairs. I think that burgers are most true to their essence when they are quick, easy, and manageable, and I find that Shake Shack and Smashburger best fulfill this ideal. They both serve fairly small burgers, and I appreciate that I don't feel horribly weighed down by their burgers after eating them. I would say that Shake Shack burgers are more disciplined and balanced, while Smashburger is more wacky in their flavors and presentation. In Minnesota, both of these chains are only located in the suburbs for some reason. I would love to see Shake Shack and Smashburger expand to more urban locations in Minnesota. 

MyBurger is a Twin Cities local burger chain with quite a few urban locations. I work right next to one so I go there relatively often. I am curious to know if they are affiliated in any way with MyPillow, another local business empire. Luckily, MyBurger does not print their CEO's likeness everywhere that they can, [unlike MyPillow](https://www.bizjournals.com/twincities/news/2019/03/04/report-of-deranged-person-hugging-pillow-in-snow.html). While MyBurger serves perfectly acceptable burgers, in my opinion they are a little too clean and Teutonic in character. The best hamburgers are messy and dripping with juices—and biting into them almost feels transgressive. 

