Date: 2019-06-17
Title: Ukrainian Travel Show Heads and Tails
  
When I was planning a trip to London and Paris last year, I didn't turn to Rick Steves or Lonely Planet for guidance. Instead, I took to YouTube to watch my favorite travel show, _Heads and Tails_. _Heads and Tails_ (Орёл и Решка) is a Russian-language TV show produced by a Ukrainian company. I found this show while looking for fun ways to study Russian. Luckily for us Americans who can't watch this show on broadcast TV, the production company of _Heads and Tails_ posts full episodes of the show on YouTube. It's unclear to me how this show is profitable when it is available for free online, especially considering its expensive production format.

<div class="embed-container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Zkz7_GRMUy4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Each episode of _Heads and Tails_ is presented by two hosts, and begins at the airport. The London episode shows the two hosts who have just arrived at Heathrow Airport and are ready to start their weekend vacation in London. One of them is wearing a backpack, and the other is holding the _Heads and Tails_ golden credit card. One of the hosts greets their new destination with a "_Privet_, London!" and flicks a £1 coin into the air. The coin toss decides which of the hosts gets the golden card for the weekend, while the other host is left with the backpack. The host with the golden credit card can spend an unlimited amount of money with the card, while the other host must backpack through the weekend, living off a single $100 bill. After much rejoicing from the bearer of the golden card and grumbling from the backpacker, the two hosts part ways. The backpacker gets gouged by the airport money changer to exchange their $100 for local currency, and then heads to the city on public transit, while the golden host gets picked up at the airport in an ostentacious sports car, ready to live like a millonaire for the weekend. At the end of each episode, the hosts prepare a bottle with $100 tucked inside and hide it in a secluded location, and show you directions on how to find the treasure.  
  
This is a super fun format for a travel show, and I'm surprised something similar doesn't exist on English language TV. Having been the backpacker with the $100 bill myself, I am impressed with how accurately _Heads and Tails_ captures the unpredictable nature of budget travel within a slickly produced TV show, and while I'm sure various preparations are happening off camera, the show feels very real and authentic to me. In some locations, $100 is actually a substantial amount of money in relation to the average local wage, and the host can live quite comfortably for the weekend. In some expensive cities, living on $100 is a real challenge, but even in those situations the hosts always do a great job of showcasing fun free things to do in a city. On the other hand, the host with the golden card can show a side of a destination that most of us will never get to experience, which is fun in its own way. Around the megacities of the world, the golden card provides access to jaw dropping hotel rooms and deluxe gastronomic experiences involving very small portions of food. In less touristic destinations, the host with the golden card tends to splash out for experiences that seem more outrageous than luxurious.
  
Each season revolves around a particular theme. My favorite was Season 7's "Back in the USSR," in which my favorite _Heads and Tails_ hosts, Andrey Bednyakov and Nastya Korotkaya, visit fascinating locations around the former Soviet Union, from the dapper Baltic states, to places off the tourist radar in the Caucasus, Central Asia, and the Russian Far East, to sprawling Moscow, where they finish the season.

Many episodes leave me  wondering which host enjoyed themselves more—the backpacker or the golden card holder. Many doors are opened by money, but money might cause you to overlook some experiences too. Most of my travel experiences have been of the budget variety, and while this led to many fond memories, I also didn't have the option of traveling any other way, so I'm always curious to see what happens when a _Heads and Tails_ host splashes out for a luxurious travel experience. Your financial situation really colors your experience of a place, and this is true whether you live somewhere or are just passing through. _Heads and Tails_ is a strange examination of the hugeness of human life—at each place they travel to they find unique customs, languages, cuisines, and architecture, with the rich and poor going about their mostly separate lives.


