Date: 2019-06-02
Title: Pokémon Detective Pikachu

I recently saw _Pokémon Detective Pikachu_ in theaters. The discourse around the movie has generally been negative, so I went in with low expectations, but I surprised myself by having a great time! Justice Smith plays the charming main character Tim, a mild mannered insurance adjuster with a repressed love of Pokémon who goes on an adventure to find his dad. Through _Rashomon_-like twists and turns, Tim must wade through conflicting accounts of a car crash that is tied to his dad's disappearance. This was an exciting storyline with a lot of heart, and it's nice that Tim searches for his dad given that the original Pokémon Game Boy games have you start your adventure by leaving your mom.
  
Ryan Reynolds as the voice of Pikachu is the more controversial aspect of this movie, although I think for most people the choice of Ryan Reynolds is less outrageous than the fact that Pikachu talks at all. The [viral clip of Pikachu briefly speaking English](https://twitter.com/broderick/status/930126330615730182) in _Pokémon the Movie: I Choose You!_ is still a fresh trauma. Although I was laughing along with the rest of the internet when the _Detective Pikachu_ trailers first came out, after having seen the movie I think that Ryan Reynolds did a good job playing Pikachu in a goofy but sincere way. The other potentially weird thing about this movie is that it has CGI Pokémon that are seamlessly integrated into live action. It was initially shocking to see Pikachu covered in realistic yellow fur in the _Detective Pikachu_ trailer. There is something unsettling about encountering a beloved cartoon character in the flesh. (Artist [Miguel Vazquez](https://miguel_vasquez.artstation.com/) has played with this idea by creating some terrifying realistic renditions of characters from _The Simpsons_, _Hey Arnold_, and other cartoons.) So the creators of _Detective Pikachu_ had to strike a fine balance of not making the Pokémon look _too_ realistic, while also not making them look video gamey and fake. I think they mostly got it right, with a few exceptions (among them a scary looking Charizard with weirdly textured skin). The visuals throughout the movie are gorgeous. Ryme City, the setting of the movie, is futuristic and colorful as a Pokémon city should be, but it also feels like a place where real people live and work. It was believable and really cool to see Pokémon inhabiting a live action world just as if they were normal animals. Throughout the movie, Tim wears a leather jacket—but did the leather come from a dead cow or a Tauros? These and other "are Pokémon animals" questions sadly remain unanswered in _Detective Pikachu_. 

In 1996, _Pocket Monster Red_ and _Pocket Monster Green_ were released in Japan for the Nintendo Game Boy. In the following few years, Pokémon became a trading card game, then a TV show, then a worldwide cultural phenomenon. It occurs to me that I am part of a unique generation of people that entered childhood just as Pokémon was coming into existence. When I was growing up, Pokémon was described as a "craze," I think with the expectation that it would soon self-combust and fade away, just like a sugar rush. Today, 23 years later, Pokémon's earliest fans such as myself aren't so young anymore, but Pokémon is still new and exciting—not just confined to the 90s nostalgia bin. Pokémon has had incredible cultural staying power over the years, perhaps only exceeded by that of the _Star Wars_ franchise. In recent years, Pokémon has birthed the versatile "Surprised Pikachu" meme, ruined smartphone batteries around the world with _Pokémon Go_, and even served as the [poetic inspiration for a Republican Presidential candidate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o95KxKKrgkQ). On another note, I actually ended up seeing _Detective Pikachu_ a second time with a group spanning ages 8 to 28, and we all had a blast, which I think speaks to the incredible power of Pokémon to speak to kids, or the former kids within us. The movie made me want to dig out my old Game Boy and _Pokémon Blue_ cartridge, but I also can't wait to see what new Pokémon thing comes out next.
